Welcome to NFL Scoring Basics!
In the NFL, there are four main ways to score points.
First: A touchdown is worth 6 points.
You get a touchdown when you carry or catch the ball in the end zone.
After a touchdown, you can kick for 1 extra point...
...or try a 2-point conversion by running or passing again.
Second: A field goal is worth 3 points.
The kicker boots the ball through the uprights.
Third: A safety is worth 2 points for the defense.
This happens when the offense gets tackled in their own end zone.
Fourth: Defensive touchdowns are also worth 6 points.
Like when the defense intercepts and runs it back for a score.
Most NFL games have scores between 14-35 points per team.
High-scoring games usually mean lots of touchdowns!
Low-scoring games often feature strong defenses and field goals.
Now you know the four ways to score in the NFL!
Watch for touchdowns, field goals, safeties, and defensive scores.
Ready to test your knowledge with a quick quiz?
Let's see how much you learned!